John Stuart Mill - Utilitarianism


Review Questions:

 

1. State and explain the Principle of Utility. Show how it could be used to justify actions that are conventionally viewed as wrong, such as lying and stealing.  

            - Utility or Great Happiness Principle holds that actions are right in proportion as they tend to promote happiness, wrong as they tend to produce the reverse of happiness.  This justify us if you start lying everyone who enters in the situation should also lie.

 

2. How does Mill reply to the objection that epicureanism is a doctrine worthy only of swine? 

            - Mill says that is unfair for others is  against  the doctrine that says the pleasure can be only for a swine. It only means that if human and swines have same source of pleasure then it would be the one person’s wants or good it can be all enough through other.

 

 

3. How does Mill distinguish between higher and lower pleasure? 

             - Mill distinguish between higher and lower pleasure is when Higher pleasure invovle the use of intellect and lower pleasure involve the senses.

 

4.  According to Mill, whose happiness must be considered? 

             - Utilitarian standard is the greatest happiness of all. Utilitarianism shows give the best happiness to people.

 

5. Carefully reconstruct Mill's proof of the Principle of Utility? 

              -For Mill the principle of Utility can be established or proven by the desire.  Desire things is can make us happy so we could conclude that happiness can be a thing or a one thing that is desirable.

 

 

Discussion Questions:

 1. Is happiness nothing more than pleasure, and the absence of pain? What do you think?

           -  For me, Happiness is more important than pleasure and absence of pain because if you give pleasure to your self or if the absence of pain you can be just satisfy not totally happy or you just happy just a few hours not for along time but if you say HAPPINESS is cause more impact and the happiness what you feel is stay for along time.

 

2. Does Mill convince you that the so-called higher pleasures are better than the lower ones?

-  Not really because there is not rate for pleasure for me. Because pleasure just pleasure to make you happy for a short time.

 

3.  Mill says, “In the golden rule of Jesus of Nazareth, we read the complete spirit of the ethics of utility”. Is this true or not?

 -  The rule is true because we should think happiness not just our own interest but we should share our happiness to other people by the ethics of utility.

 

4. Many commentators have thought that Mill’s proof of the Principles of Utility is defective. Do you agree? If so, then what mistake or mistakes does he make? Is there any way to reformulate the proof so that it is not defective?

 - Somehow I disagree because the mistake that he make is that he sees people the same. 